My name is Eric St.
Onge, and today I'm going to be
guiding you through this session.
I'm an engineer on the iChat team.
So let's go through the agenda today.
First, we're going to start off with
a very high-level overview
to what iChat Theater is.
Then we're going to talk about supporting
iChat Theater in your own application.
And we'll go through the
architecture of iChat Theater,
supporting iChat Theater via Quick Look,
and then actually using a
lower-level iChat Theater API.
And at the end, we'll have time for
questions and answers.
So let's start off with a simple
question of what is iChat Theater?
So simply put,
iChat Theater is-- say you start
off with a video conference with
me and my friend Peter here.
And let's say you have a
second application that's,
say, showing a slide show.
iChat Theater lets you take the
content of that slide show and
add it to the video conference.
So Peter and I could both
be looking at the slide show
of a zebra at the same time,
just using iChat.
Let's also take a moment to talk
about what iChat Theater is not.
First,
iChat Theater is not screen sharing.
Screen sharing is a feature of iChat,
and it allows for full VNC or remote
desktop access to another iChat user.
But iChat Theater is different.
It's for broadcast only.
iChat Theater is also not video
chat in your own application.
So this is not, for instance, you know,
just a video chat view that
you can instantiate in your
calculator application.
That's not what iChat Theater is.
Again, it's just broadcasting via iChat.
So there are many things you
can use iChat Theater for,
for instance, still images, video,
or presentations.
But let's take a look at actually
some of the clients out there that
are actually supporting iChat Theater.
The first of which is iPhoto.
And this is actually
built directly into iChat.
Under the File menu,
if you choose Share iPhoto
with iChat Theater,
you'll get a browser that will
show you all the photo albums
that you have set up in iPhoto.
And from that browser,
you can just pick an
album and choose Share.
And then you can actually just
share that album over iChat Theater.
And it has a little controller on
the bottom for some extra controls
for moving through the slideshow.
Keynote also provides full
support for iChat Theater.
So all the transitions and all the
effects that you can do in Keynote,
you can actually show those over
iChat through iChat Theater.
But there are third-party apps as well.
For those of you who saw Bertrand's
Mac OS X State of the Union,
he talked about 64-bit and Osiris,
which is a powerful medical
imaging application.
And Osiris actually also includes
support for iChat Theater.
So look how happy they
are to use iChat Theater.
So your users can be this happy too.
Another application is
Boinks Photo Magico.
This is a photo slideshow application
that's a little more powerful than
iPhoto that gives you better effects
and different things you can do.
CEI Insight is an engineering
visualization application.
This also supports iChat
Theater so that you can show
visualizations over iChat Theater.
And a company called Equinox
creates a product called the Tube,
which allows you to place shift TV.
So you can watch live TV or recorded
TV over iChat Theater with a friend.
And hopefully,
by the end of this session,
your app will support iChat Theater, too.
So let's take a moment to talk
about how you start iChat Theater.
The key point is to keep in mind
that iChat Theater is always
user-initiated from iChat.
You have to do this
through a variety of ways.
We'll go through in a second.
But the easiest way is
to go to the File menu,
Share File with iChat Theater.
And then you can pick a document
or an application that you want
to share with iChat Theater.
You can also drag and drop
directly onto a video chat.
So let me take a moment to
show you how that works.
As you can see here,
I just have iChat running,
and I'm going to start a video
chat with my friend Peter.
Hi, Peter.
So let's say that I have some photos
from a recent trip I took to Africa.
What I can do in iChat is
I can go to the File menu,
and I can go Share a
File with iChat Theater.
And then I have those on my desktop,
so I'll just navigate to it.
And I'll pick a few of
those that I want to share.
And as you can see,
it shows up just directly
in the video chat.
It expands,
and there's a second video stream
with my friend's camera video and
the photo that we're looking at.
But I can also, you know,
directly drag and drop from the
Finder if I want to do that.
So I'll just take these
and drag and drop that way.
And as you can see,
it's just continuing to play a slideshow.
But there are other kinds of
media that are supported as well.
So let's say I wanted to share a movie.
I can just take this video
and just drag and drop.
Hello.
And you can see it just immediately
starts playing in iChat Theater,
just seamlessly.
So I also mentioned Keynote earlier.
So this machine actually does not
support Keynote fully for some reason.
But normally what would happen
is if we were broadcasting over
iChat Theater using Keynote,
again, you would see the full builds and
transitions that you would expect
to see in a Keynote presentation.
So we can go back to the slides.
Slides, please.
OK, so that's iChat Theater.
Now let's talk about
supporting iChat Theater.
And first, we'll start off talking
about the architecture.
So we saw this diagram a moment
ago where there's just a zebra
that's flying through an orange
bar in the video conference.
Let's just go through and kind of fill in
some of the gaps as to what is actually
happening technically behind the scenes.
So first of all,
we're actually talking about frames
that are moving from an application
to iChat to iChat on the other side.
So the important piece of information
that you need to notice from
this diagram is that iChat to
iChat is going over the network.
And iChat is packaging
up that frame for you.
So all you need to kind of look
at is an application that is
providing video content to iChat.
The other important piece of information
here is that your application
only exists on one side of this.
So your application only needs to
exist on the sending side of the video.
The other side just needs to
have iChat to show the video.
So when we talk about
supporting iChat Theater,
primarily we're talking about
the part in your application
that is sending frames to iChat.
And let's look at one way that we
can support iChat via Quick Look.
So here's the architecture
diagram again for reference.
But Leopard introduced a new
feature called Quick Look,
which allows fast previews
and thumbnails for documents.
And Quick Look is responsible
for providing thumbnails
and those images for Finder.
So Finder can display these in
a Quick Look panel and it will
also use it for Icon Thumbnails.
And this is a plugin that you can build.
That API is currently available.
But if you have one of these,
this actually already
supports iChat Theater.
So iChat is able to use
Quick Look bundles and Quick Look plugins
to actually provide that
content directly over iChat Theater.
So as far as the details of it,
if you already have a Quick Look plugin,
or if you plan to build one,
there's no extra work that
you need to do to get iChat
Theater working with that plugin.
It should just work right out of the box.
But there are a few limitations
that you should keep in mind
if you choose to do that.
The first of which is that
Quick Look is always document-based.
If you build an application that
hides documents from the users,
maybe something like iPhoto or iTunes,
where there's just a source and all
the files are hidden behind the scenes,
Quick Look might not be for you.
It's also worth pointing out that
Quick Look limits the interactivity.
So it's read-only,
and it's really only very simple
controls like fast-forward,
rewind, play/pause,
just very basic controls.
So if you need more
advanced controls than that,
you'll probably want to look elsewhere.
It's also worth pointing out
that the fidelity is limited.
So what this means is that-- I talked
about Keynote a moment ago with all the
builds and presentations and effects.
Applications that don't have
Keynote installed will actually
just use a Quick Look plug-in to
render that Keynote presentation.
But that presentation isn't
going to have those effects.
It's just going to be just a
flat view of that presentation.
So Quick Look is a very powerful tool,
and I would encourage you to build it
in to your application's documents.
You should look at session 513,
System-wide Previews with Quick Look,
for more information
on how to build that.
So that's Quick Look.
And I talked about the limitations.
If you want to move past those
limitations for more control,
there's an API for you.
So let's talk about that.
And we'll go into this in some depth.
So first we'll talk about what
you need to do before you begin.
We'll talk about session state,
which is how the system
is actually working.
Then we'll talk about
providing video and audio.
And then we'll talk
about playback controls.
So first,
let's go back to the architecture
diagram to see how the
API actually fits into this.
So first, let's take a closer
look at the application.
So your application actually
has a two-way channel of
communication with iChat.
And iChat is actually talking to a
data source within your application.
But that data source is not
actually talking directly to iChat.
It's talking to iChat via the
instant message framework.
So if we are actually talking
about supporting iChat Theater,
to get a little more specific,
all you need to do is build a data
source in your application and
use the instant message framework
to provide frames to iChat.
So let's talk about what you need to
do before you begin actually supporting
iChat Theater in your application.
So the first thing you have to do is
you have to tell the operating system
that your app supports iChat Theater.
And the way you do this is by adding a
key to your application's Info.plist.
If your application doesn't really
support the concept of a document,
so if your application is just
capable of providing video,
you'll want to add this key directly
to the top level of your info.p list.
And this is ls can provide
imvideo data source,
and set the value to true.
If your application supports previews
for certain specific document types,
you'll just add that same key to
the bundle document type definition.
So that's what you need
to do before you begin.
Next, let's look at session state.
So I talked about how
iChat Theater uses the
Instant Message Framework a moment ago.
The class that it actually uses
in the Instant Message Framework
is called IMAV Manager.
And to get access to that,
you'll want to import the
Instant Message Framework
and the IMAV Manager header.
And then to get the IMAV Manager,
it's just a shared
instance of IMAV Manager.
That AV Manager has a state built in.
So to get that state,
you would just call AV Manager state
on the shared instance.
And the state will change
as iChat Theater prepares
to show your application.
This is actually a critical step,
because if you don't register for
these state change notifications,
the state will never change.
iChat Theater uses this registration
to actually handle the registration
for your application in iChat.
So you have to do this to
actually support iChat Theater.
And the way you register for
those state changes is you use the
IAM Service Notification Center.
If any of you saw the
Instant Message Framework presentation,
this is actually the same notification
center you would use for that.
And then you'll just add an observer
for the IAM AV Manager State Changed
Notification.
But let's talk about
those states a little bit.
So there are six states that
iChat Theater will go through,
or the AV Manager will go through,
that you might need to know about.
The first of which is IMAV inactive.
And this is an idle state.
This means that iChat Theater is
not actually doing anything.
It's basically waiting for the user
to initiate iChat Theater from iChat.
At some point in the future,
when the user actually
initiates iChat Theater,
the state will move to IMAV requested.
So at this point,
if your application supports documents,
The URL to share accessor on the
AV Manager will be able to tell you the
document that the user asked to share.
And when you've loaded that document,
you're done what you need to do to
start the iChat Theater session,
you just call it AV Manager Start.
When you call start,
iChat Theater will move
to IM AV starting up,
which means that the session
is being initialized.
This usually happens very quickly,
often in less than a few seconds.
So after starting up,
the state will move to IM AV pending.
And pending can mean two things.
It can mean that the iChat
Theater session is being
negotiated and that a video
conference is already running.
Or it could mean that there
is actually no video chat,
or a video chat has yet to connect.
So there are a couple states,
and depending on the
state that you're in,
it might take a different amount of time.
But the key point is that at this point,
while it's pending,
no video frames are yet being requested,
but they will be shortly.
And at that point,
when you need to provide video frames,
the state will move to IMAV running.
And as it says, iChat Theater is running.
At this point, as I said,
your app should provide
audio and video to iChat.
Finally, at the end,
the state will move to
I am AV shutting down.
This means that the
AV chat has ended somehow.
If you need to do any cleanup for
any of the objects you created
when starting iChat Theater,
you should clean them up here.
And there are multiple paths
to get to shutting down.
So it's important that your
cleanup happens in shutting down
rather than at the end of your
session or something like that.
And finally, at the end,
it'll move back to IMEV inactive,
which means that, again,
it's the unidle state,
and it's waiting for the user
to initiate iChat Theater.
So let's actually talk
about running a session.
So I mentioned the video
data source a moment ago.
And to set the video data source,
all you need to do is call set video
data source on the shared AV manager.
You can also set a few
options on the AV Manager,
the first of which is
video optimization stills.
Now, since we're actually talking about
running a video conference here,
these optimizations actually provide
hints to the video conference engine
to kind of hint as to what your
application is going to be doing,
kind of the intent.
Instills optimization means that
your application is willing to
sacrifice motion-- or motion
at the expense of quality.
Sorry, other way around.
First way.
Sorry.
So what this means is that
if your application is going
to show a lot of stills,
like a slide show with
not much animation,
stills might allow the video
conference to provide higher
resolution videos over the conference.
Now, the thing is that if you are
also moving a lot in the video,
the codec is not going to be
able to handle that as well,
because you told it that you
were going to provide stills.
So you should just keep in
mind-- keep that in mind.
You can also say that you
want replacement mode.
So typically what we saw was your camera
being sent with a secondary video source.
So replacement mode effectively
removes that second video source
and replaces your camera output with
the video from your application.
And there are a couple of reasons
why you might want to do that,
the first of which is CPU usage.
Since you don't have to
do the camera processing,
you can focus all processing
on your application's video.
And that might be important,
depending on what you're doing.
The second thing to keep in mind is that
bandwidth can actually be focused more on
your application's video content rather
than on the entire video conference.
And that could also be important.
It's also good to know that
replacement might happen without
you actually asking for it.
So iChat Theater was
introduced with Leopard.
So if you're talking with a
Leopard or Snow Leopard user,
you'll be able to see that
advanced kind of split view.
But if you're talking with older video
chat software or aim for Windows,
you're actually always
going to see replacement,
since those applications don't
know how to handle iChat Theater.
So as I said before, when the state moves
to I am AV requested,
you're just going to want
to start the AV Manager.
And if your application wants
to stop it for some reason,
you call AV Manager stop.
So that was the session state.
Now let's talk about
actually providing video.
So as I mentioned,
we just set the video data source.
And there are two kind of objects that
you can set as a video data source.
The first is an NSView or
some common subclasses,
which I'll talk about.
Otherwise,
if it's not one of those common classes,
you just have to implement an object
or write an object that implements
the IAM video data source protocol.
And I'll talk about
both of these in depth.
The first is an NSU data source.
And as I said, the common cases for
NSUs are handled for you.
And where possible,
iChat has tried to hook into the display
mechanism for those common cases.
But let's talk about what
those cases actually are.
The first of which is
just a standard NS view.
So this is just a very basic NS view.
Probably most of you are using
those in your application.
And iChat will actually directly
support these in iChat Theater.
And what is actually happening to draw
a frame in iChat Theater is that you're
rendering your image on the main thread.
In the method, display rect,
ignoring opacity in context.
Another thing to keep in mind about this
is that it's resolution independent.
That means that an affine
transform has been applied to
your view before you draw into it.
You should check resolution
independence guidelines online
to see what this actually means.
But the short story of it is that you
might be drawing into more or fewer
pixels than you are used to drawing into.
So I said we try to hook into the
display mechanism when we can,
and that's basically
through set needs display.
So if you ever need to force a new frame,
you just call set needs display yes.
So that's NSView.
The next class is Qt Movie View.
And Qt Movie View is a view that
is built into Mac OS X that allows
you to play back QuickTime movies.
And for iChat Theater,
we've actually hooked directly
into QuickTime to get frames
from QuickTime for iChat Theater.
So this is rendering off the
main thread in QuickTime.
And that means that set
needs display yes is ignored.
QuickTime is handling the
drawing of these frames,
so it knows when a new frame
is allowed or available.
Since QuickTime handles
audio as well as video,
audio comes for free with Qt Movie Views.
So if you have a Qt Movie View that's
playing a movie with audio and video,
both of those will get sent
through iChat Theater if a Qt
Movie View is your data source.
And then NSOpenGLView,
this is Mac OS X's view
for showing OpenGL content.
And NSOpenGLView basically reads
back a snapshot of the GL context,
which means basically copying the pixels.
It's capturing on the main thread.
But since OpenGL does not
necessarily have a common
mechanism for updating the screen,
you actually always must call
setNeedsDisplayYes to get a
new frame to iChat Theater,
since we have no way of knowing
when you're updating the view.
QC view is the Quartz Composition view,
or Quartz Composer view.
And basically,
it's a subclass of NSOpenGL view,
so it works similarly.
It reads back a snapshot of a GL context,
like the NSOpenGL view.
But a snapshot is
captured for every frame.
So since Quartz Composer is going
to render every frame on screen,
you basically always
have full motion video,
which means that
SetNeedsDisplayYes is ignored,
since it knows when to draw frames.
And IAMVideoOptimizationStills
is also ignored,
since Quartz Composer is always moving.
It's always full motion video.
So those are the common classes.
Now let's talk about some of the
limitations of things that are
not supported in iChat Theater,
the first of which is, unfortunately,
core animation.
So if you have a layer-backed views,
animation is not supported.
You'll get basically an
incorrectly drawn version of that
view or something unexpected.
But what you can do is that you can
use an NSAnimation context and say,
set wants layer no on that view instead.
That's a workaround.
Also, since we're hooking into the
view mechanism wherever possible,
if you have an NS view
with a QCGL or QT subview,
the rendering mechanisms are
different for all of those.
So iChat doesn't actually know how
to capture the frame or capture
the video of those kind of views.
So basically, the rendering is only going
to include the top level view.
If you want to get these
into iChat Theater,
you will need to manually
composite those views.
But let me show you a demo of
NSU data sources in iChat Theater.
So if I call my friend Peter again.
So I have here an iChat
Theater sample application.
The source code is available to
you if you want to follow along.
But first,
let's actually see what it's doing.
So I'll just start iChat Theater.
And as you can see, it's got a dropdown,
basically a source list with a
few different kinds of views,
starting with the OpenGL view,
an NS view,
which is basically a web view,
Qt movie view, and a QC view.
Let's start with the NSOpenGL view.
There's also a pixel
buffer and OpenGL buffer,
but we'll get to those later.
So if we go and we take the
iChat Theater application and
we drag and drop onto iChat,
You'll see that this application
is actually now just actively
providing content to iChat Theater.
And if we go in, if we change the source,
that kind of changes as it goes along.
In the NS view, you can see like this.
So the web view is an NS view,
but it's also worth noting
that a web view can contain
QuickTime plug-ins and things like that.
So if you wanted to see an
example where different rendering
paths are not supported,
for instance,
try going to view a trailer in Safari or
something like that or in this view.
But let's take a look at the
source to see how that's working.
So again,
this is the iChat Theater sample,
if you want to follow along.
And primarily,
you saw the user interface.
It's very simple.
Basically, there is a tab view with
multiple views behind it.
And the main class that is
in charge is in controller.h.
And you can see it has the pop-up button,
which is basically the source list,
the NS tab view,
which basically is all the
views that we were looking at.
And then it has actually
accessors to all of those views.
So we'll skip the first two,
but we saw the web view,
the normal GL view,
which is the spinning square.
It also had a QT movie
view and a QC view.
So the QC view and the movie view
are actually very simple classes that
just support drag and drop of a movie
or a composition onto those views.
So let's not look at the code
for those since it's very simple.
And a web view is actually
just a public class.
So we'll take a closer look at
the normal GL view in a moment.
But let's see how the
controller is actually working.
So if we go to Awake from Nib,
you can see it's basically doing
some work to set up the tab list.
And then at the end,
it's doing an initial state
synchronization to say,
set enable iChat, set enable Theater,
yes.
So let's see what that does.
So if we are enabling iChat Theater,
we're going to register for
the state change notifications,
and then we're going to perform
that initial state change.
So let's see what that
state change actually does.
So as I said before,
when the state moved to requested,
we need to start the AV Manager.
And when the state moves to running,
we're going to activate the
currently visible tab view.
And what that means is that if the tab
view is showing a slide show or a movie,
we're just going to start playing.
So the video data source is actually set
in a delegate method for the tab view,
which is tabViewDidSelect tabview item.
So this method will be called after
the tab view has been selected,
and all it does is it
gets the AV manager.
It activates the tab
view if it's running.
It sets some optimization options,
which we'll go back to in a second.
It sets up the audio.
And then it picks the data source.
So it knows which view it needs to
use for each of the different views,
and then sets that as the data source.
If we just briefly look at
the set optimization options,
you'll see that depending if it's
showing the pixel buffer or the NS view,
we're basically going to
just say we want stills.
There's also a replacement option
under one of the menu items
if you want to turn that on.
And you can also enable that
as one of the optimizations.
Let's take a look at the normal GL view.
This was the spinning square.
And as you can see,
it's just a direct subclass
of NSOpenGL view with a start
time and a redraw timer.
And the code is also
very straightforward.
Basically, when the view is created,
a view did move to window, gets called,
and that creates a frame timer,
which gets fired every
30 frames a second.
And FrameTimerFire is just going to say,
"Set needs display:
yes." Since this is an NSOpenGL view,
we need to always say
we need a new frame.
Then all that's doing is some
very basic OpenGL drawings.
This is just in DrawRect,
which will get called implicitly
after set needs display is called.
And you can see it's just doing
some basic OpenGL operations.
So that's the basics of the code.
If we can go back to the slides.
So that was a demo of
NSU Data Sources in iChat Theater.
So that covers the very simple cases
that might work for most of you.
But if you have something lower level,
you might actually need more control.
And for that, you should go to the iM
Video Data Source Protocol,
which will give you precise
control over video content,
frame-level control over video content.
If you need to do bandwidth optimization,
you can also do that,
and it also will allow you to
take care of frame scheduling
and audio synchronization,
if you have an advanced application
where you need to do that.
since the other views we talked
about actually don't handle that.
So let's talk about how
you actually implement the
IAM Video Data Source Protocol.
Basically,
you need to implement callbacks,
and the callbacks exist
for two buffer types.
The first of which is a CV pixel buffer,
just a pixel buffer,
or a CV OpenGL buffer,
which we'll just say OpenGL buffer.
And there are two callbacks,
the first of which
specifies buffer options.
And this will get called immediately
after you set the video data source.
There's also a second callback to provide
frames that you need to implement.
This will get called off the main thread.
So basically, to implement the
Video Data Threshold Protocol,
you need to implement one
pair of those methods,
so either the pair for pixel buffers
or the pair for OpenGL buffers.
Let's take a closer look
at the pixel buffers.
So as I said, there are two callbacks.
The first one is to
specify the pixel format,
and that is getPixelBufferPixelFormat.
So just a very simple example is
setting the pixel format to 32 ARGB.
The second callback you need
to implement provides frames,
and that is render into
pixel buffer for time.
So as you can see,
the return value is a bool.
If nothing has changed since the
last time you provided a frame,
you'll return no, otherwise return yes.
And while you are dealing
with the pixel buffer,
you need to keep in mind that iChat
Theater owns the pixel buffer,
and you should not retain it.
When drawing into it, make sure you first
lock the base address.
Then you can either fill the buffer
directly or create a graphics
context and draw into that buffer.
When you're done,
unlock the base address,
and that's about it.
So here's a very simple example.
So first, if nothing has changed since
the last time we drew a frame,
just return no.
Otherwise, lock the base address.
Then get the width and
height of the buffer.
Since this is actually an
active video conference,
the frame rate and the size of
the buffer could actually change
as the conference is going.
So you have to make sure that
every time this callback is called,
you check the width and the height to see
if you need to do something differently.
Next, you need to get the base address of
that buffer before you draw into it.
Then you can do your drawing code.
Unlock the base address when you're done,
and return yes.
So OpenGL buffers work very similarly.
The callback-- the first
callback is to specify the
OpenGL context in pixel format,
and that is
getOpenGLBufferContextPixelFormat.
And in that, again,
you just set the context and
set the pixel buffer format--
or set the pixel format.
The second callback provides frames,
and that is render into
OpenGL buffer on screen for time.
And again, if nothing has changed,
return no.
Also keep in mind, again,
do not retain the buffer.
But when you actually need to draw,
you need to attach the buffer
to the context and to the
screen that you're drawing on.
call flush at the end to make sure
that the buffer actually gets flushed,
the context gets flushed.
So here's a sample implementation
that we can walk through.
If nothing has changed, return no.
Next, we're going to set the CGL macro
context to a shared context.
And let's take a moment to see what
CGL macro context actually does.
So a recent version of
Mac OS X introduced the concept
of concurrent OpenGL rendering,
which essentially means that
OpenGL is multithreaded,
and there is not necessarily
a current OpenGL context.
It might vary depending
on the thread you're on.
So this macro will actually
solve that problem for you.
So it will actually direct
OpenGL to use a specific context.
So if you want to use this macro,
you need to import the OpenGL/CGL macro
header and then set CGL macro context
to the context that you want to use.
And to see what this is actually doing,
let's say we have a callback
thread and a main thread,
each of which has their own context.
So if on the callback thread we set
it to the shared context and the main
thread we set it to the main context,
what happens after that macro is
called is that every operation
that is sent to OpenGL is now
focused to the specific context.
So if this were not taken care of,
for instance,
you might end up with a bizarre situation
where you're not entirely sure where
your OpenGL commands are being sent.
So just keep in mind that if
you have multiple contexts,
you need to set the CGL macro context
to the context you want to draw into.
So to go back to the
sample implementation,
you set the macro context.
You attach the buffer to
the context and the screen.
You get the rect for the buffer,
and then you do your
OpenGL operations and your drawing,
and when you're done, return yes.
So there's one parameter that
we didn't talk about yet,
which is the for time argument.
And as you can see,
this exists on both pixel
buffers and OpenGL buffers.
So what does this actually mean?
And what it actually is is it's the time
stamp that the frame is being requested.
And we give you this because this will
actually allow you to synchronize frames.
You should set this to the time
that the frame that you are
returning first appeared on screen.
And let's take a look at why
you might want to do that.
So let's say that you have
a data source with callbacks
being called to provide frames,
you know, 20 frames a second.
And you're drawing to
screen 30 times a second,
so 30 frames a second.
What this means is that when iChat is
calling back into your application,
it's basically going to
miss every third frame.
So the remote side,
when you send this over iChat Theater,
is basically going to see
frames with a lot of jitter.
So a frame that should have
been short might be long,
and a frame that should have
been long might be short.
So the motion will not look smooth.
Basically,
what you want to do is you want to
adjust the timestamp to when that
frame first appeared on screen to kind
of match up to when your application
showed these frames on screen.
So what this actually means,
or what this effectively does,
is it drops the third frame.
So again,
the third frames will still be dropped.
So the same number of
frames will be sent.
But the effect will be much
smoother on the remote side.
So let me give you an example of this.
I am video data source protocols.
So here we are again.
Let's start the iChat Theater sample.
And we'll go back to the first two
sources that we didn't talk about yet.
So the Pixel Buffer,
which is actually a slideshow,
which also has a cool little
laser pointer if you want to
add that to your application.
And open a jail buffer,
which is just a very
basic progress indicator.
And just we can switch between these two.
As you can see, it's just an additional
view like any of the others.
But let's take a look at how that
actually works behind the scenes.
So again, we talked about-- we already
went over the QC view,
the Qt Movie view, the normal GL view,
and the web view.
So the first sample, the pixel buffer,
was a slideshow view.
And this is just a very simple class.
It's a subclass of NSView.
In terms of instance variables,
it has a start time and a timer.
So like the OpenGL view
we saw in the last one,
basically it's going to create a
timer that fires 30 times a second.
And it also has a start and a
stop method so that it knows when
to start and stop the slide show.
So in terms of implementation,
In Awake from Nib,
it's going to set up the slideshow.
And when this is activated,
it's going to be set as
the video data source.
So again, as the tab switches,
it's going to set the video data source.
And here you see the video data source
implements getPixelBufferPixelFormat,
which sets the pixel format to 32 ARGB.
And it also implements
renderIntoPixelBufferForTime.
So the slideshow is interesting in
that the way it actually renders
is that with a given set of slides,
it knows which slide or which dissolve
between those slides it should
show at any given point in time.
So since the time argument is given,
this basically means that we
can look at the slide show and
see what frame we should pull
out to provide to iChat Theater.
And as you can see,
we do that by get current image.
And that's going to give you the image.
But then we're going to
lock the base address,
create the graphics context,
or use the graphics context
we've already created.
Set the context, draw into it,
and flush it.
And then at the end,
since as you saw it was a slide show,
some of the images showed for
longer periods of time than others.
So we're going to adjust the timestamp
back to when that slide first appeared.
Then we'll release the context
and unlock and return yes.
So next,
let's talk about the threaded GL view.
This was the progress indicator.
And again, this is very simple.
It just uses a timer like the others.
But it creates a context
and a pixel format.
So if we look at the
implementation of that,
again, on viewDidMoveToWindow,
it sets up the frame timer.
And it also implements the
OpenGL buffer callbacks.
So getOpenGLBuffer just basically
creates the pixel format
here that it wants to use,
and it creates the context.
Then it sets it to the context passed
in and the pixel format as well.
And render into OpenGL Buffer for Time,
again, is using CGL macro context.
Since we created a context above,
it's basically going to render on a
different context than the main UI.
So again, it's going to attach the buffer
to the screen in the context,
get the rectangle,
set up the OpenGL commands,
and then render into that
context for the specified time.
And it'll just return yes.
So that drawing takes place here.
You can see it's basically just doing
some very basic OpenGL operations
to draw that progress indicator.
Okay, we can go back to the slides.
So that was the iM
Video Data Source Protocol,
and again, that's part of the iChat
Theater sample if you want to
see how that's working in depth.
Now let's talk about audio.
And audio, actually,
in terms of iChat Theater,
is very straightforward.
The first thing you need to do
is on the video data source,
you need to tell it the number of audio
channels that you are going to provide.
This can be zero, one, or two.
iChat Theater actually
supports one audio channel,
and so it's going to
mix this down for you.
But for convenience,
we'll say we support two,
and you can provide two channels.
And then when you've said the number
of audio channels you support,
when the state is IMAV running,
you can ask for the device UID and
the channels that are set up for that.
And this is actually-- you
can use NS Sound to actually
play into iChat Theater.
So on a sound,
you can set the audio device by
passing in the playback identifier.
Then you can set the channel mapping.
And again, this will map back to the
number of channels that you
said you wanted earlier.
And then finally at the end,
when you want to play, just say,
my sound play.
So it's worth noting that this is
actually probably more complicated
than most of you need to do.
We've actually written this for you,
just sample methods that
would just play these sounds,
just categories on NS Sound.
Those are part of the
iChat Theater sample,
so we just encourage you to
take those sound additions and
copy them into your own project
to use those in iChat Theater.
But if you need to go
lower level than NSSound,
you can also use Core Audio,
and this is by using a Core Audio device.
So if NSSound is too easy for you,
you can use the Core Audio code.
So again, basically,
we're talking about converting from
an audio device ID-- from the audio
device UID we received from iChat
Theater to an audio device in Core Audio.
And we'll use an audio value
translation that's going to pass
in the UID that we start with and
the device we want to translate to.
And then we'll perform that get property
operation to do the translation,
which ends up back in the device.
And then you can use the
Core Audio device as you would
any other Core Audio device.
So Core Audio is kind of beyond
the scope of this presentation,
but if you want to find
more about Core Audio,
you can check out session 704,
Understanding the
Architecture of Core Audio.
Or if you want to go to a lab,
it's lab 7017, the Core Audio lab.
So that was audio.
Now let's talk about playback controls.
So if you're running on Leopard,
basically what you see when you're
running iChat Theater is not actually
just a simple window with content in it.
You're also going to see a second window.
So in the case of Quick Look,
for instance, here,
you're going to see the
zebra in a second window.
And that second window
might be in your way,
and might just be occluding
your iChat experience.
So we kind of want to improve this.
So for Snow Leopard,
what we've done is we've refined this.
So we're getting rid of
that Quick Look panel,
and we're moving those controls
directly into the iChat window.
So this is new for Snow Leopard,
and it's embedded in the video chat.
And it's actually API that's
available for you as well.
But it supports only very basic controls.
So play/pause, forward,
such as next in a slide show,
or backward,
which is previous in a slide show,
a mute, and a time slider,
basically a scrubber like
you would see in a video.
So this is an opt-in API only.
So if you don't want
to use these controls,
you don't have to.
If you've already supported
iChat Theater or have some
other solution for controls that
you want to continue to use,
you can do that.
So it's opt-in only.
There are two classes,
the IMAV Control Bar.
And the Control Bar is
basically the container for the
buttons that you want to use.
And then there is the IMAV control,
which is the control that you
can put into that container.
And basically,
there are two types right now--
IMAV button and IMAV slider.
And those are the controls that
you see in that control bar.
And these are roughly parallel to
their AppKit counterparts-- NSControl,
NSButton, and NSSlider.
But it's trimmed down to support
just the accessors and setters
that can be used in iChat Theater.
So that control bar that
you see is actually just
available from an AV Manager.
So if you just say Shared
AV Manager and get the control bar,
you'll have that control bar.
And then to add buttons to that,
the API is very straightforward.
The buttons exists as shared
instances off the class that
they are declared as part of.
So for the Play/Pause button,
you can call imavbutton Play/PauseButton.
And then you can set
the state to enabled.
And you can set a target and action.
So that means that when the
button is pressed in iChat,
that target and action will
be called in your application.
And then when you set it up,
you add it to the control bar and
it'll show up immediately in iChat,
assuming that your application
is the one that is providing
content to iChat Theater.
Enter/remove, it's very similar.
You just say remove control,
specified control.
Or you can just fast remove all controls.
So let's take a look at that too.
Peter again?
So OK, so if we start up the iChat
Theater application again.
So basically, if we go to the iChat
Theater sample under the Video menu,
as I said earlier,
if you want to turn on Replace Video,
you can do it here.
But we're going to turn on Controls.
I mean, just flip on that menu item,
and as you can see,
it just immediately shows up in iChat.
And if we push the buttons here,
you can see it changes the
view in the other application.
And if we want,
we can go back here and we can, you know,
shut those off,
and it just immediately shuts back off.
Turn them back on if we wanted to.
And that's playback controls.
So let's see how that's implemented.
So if we go back to the controller,
there is an additional accessor
for set enable theater controls.
And what that does is basically
it gets the control bar
from the shared AV manager,
like we saw.
And if we're enabling,
we're going to basically set up a
backward button and a forward button.
And we're going to set up a target
in action to select the previous
source or select the next source.
So it's basically just going to move
through the items available in the
dropdown or in the pop-up button.
We can see, so select next source.
All it does is just basically
select a new source.
That will kind of trigger the tab view,
did select tab view item callback,
and it'll behave as we expect it to.
So again,
that's really all there is to it.
As you can see,
it's very little code to add
those controls and to get them
working with your own application.
So let's go back to the slides.
So that was playback controls.
And that actually almost wraps it up.
So today we talked about
what iChat Theater is.
We talked about supporting iChat Theater,
including an overview
of the architecture,
how to support iChat
Theater via Quick Look,
and then an introduction to the
lower level API for iChat Theater.
So you can use iChat Theater for
sharing and collaboration.
You can use iChat Theater to basically
show anything that you can show in
your application without having to need
your application on the other side.
So your own users can basically sell
your application to their friends.
And there are a few options if
you want to support iChat Theater.
You can use Quick Look.
Or for lower level support,
you can go to NSU or
the basic subclasses.
Or for full control,
you can use the IAMvideo data source
protocol and implement those callbacks.
As I said, Snow Leopard introduces
playback controls.
So we encourage you to use those
to make the experience better for
iChat users of your application.
And we'd love to hear your feedback
basically on the entire process,
from starting iChat Theater all
the way to the playback controls,
which is new for Leopard.
We're here to support you.
So for more information,
you should contact Matt Drance.
You can email him at
mdrance at apple.com.
You can also join the mailing list
for questions about iChat Theater,
the Instant Message Framework,
or any of the scripting mechanisms
that you can use for iChat.
That is iChat-dev at lists.apple.com.
The sample that we went over today
is available from the attendees site,
developer.apple.com slash www.attendee.
And for related sessions,
you should check out session 523,
Keeping Users Connected with
the Instant Message Framework.
We have a lab tomorrow morning
at 9 o'clock if you want to drop
by and ask us some questions or
if you want any help implementing
iChat Theater in your application.
And we also talked about Quick Look,
so if you want to find out how
to implement Quick Look with
your own application,
check out session 525,
System-Wide Previews with Quick Look.